2 years ago Graphics giant Nvidia caused
a wave of outrage when they announced
two gaming gpus that had the same name
but seriously different performance
thankfully though they learned their
lesson from that response and they never
did it
again
sorry they did do it again they did it
again less than a month later and
they're still doing it today the only
difference the only difference is that
they're keeping this Behavior out of the
headlines by doing it on the budget gpus
that the media usually ignores for
example the RTX 3050 6 gig did you even
notice when this thing was released I
don't blame you rather than creating a
product guide and sending samples to
reviewers for testing Nvidia announced
this thing by writing a short blog post
about it like it was 2009 as a result
very few reviews were made and even
fewer people watched them now you could
say well Nvidia probably did that
because they knew that no one was going
to be excited about a relaunch of the
same GPU from 2 years ago anyway but I
think they did it that way because they
didn't want anyone to notice that it is
not the same GPU from 2 years ago how do
they think that this is okay it isn't
okay and to show you just how not okay
it is we are finally going to be looking
not just at the
30506 gig but we're also going to be
putting a spotlight on the many times in
the past that Nvidia has pulled this
dirty move stretching all the way back
to the beginning and we're also going to
put a spotlight on our sponsor ug green
their nexo 20,000 Mah 130 W portable
charger is packed to the brim with both
power and capacity meaning your devices
can stay powered on and connected for
even longer so check it out at the link
down in the description Kuda cor and
memory buses don't mean much to you
don't worry because all you really need
to know is that when we compared the new
3056 gig to the original 8 gig model we
found that in both real games and in
Benchmark apps there was a big enough
difference that a more appropriate name
for this new car would have been RTX
3040 or even 3030 this calls into
question what even makes a 3050 a 3050
in the first place it clearly doesn't
mean the specifications and it doesn't
even mean the performance and what's
really frustrating for me is that by
drawing this comparison to the original
3050 it makes us think oh this is a
really bad card but it's not it's
actually the best GPU on the market that
doesn't need extra power cables so if I
were say upgrading a Dell Optiplex for
some serious gaming business it could
actually be a really great option it
just isn't an RTX 3050 option and
calling it that is misleading all Nvidia
had to do to avoid this video ever being
made is give it an appropriate name
let's talk about why they didn't and
fair warning you might not like what you
you here the thing is budget GPU
Shoppers are much less likely to read or
watch a review before they click check
out I know this from my experienc
working retail but even if you don't
believe me look at the numbers the
original RTX 3050 got the full launch
treatment from Nvidia and if we look at
the steam Hardware survey we can see
that that card sold extremely well more
than the high-end RTX 380 and yet the
3050 got fewer views across the board
for the media that covered both cars
and that kind of makes sense I mean
anybody would put the extra research
into a $700 purchase but wouldn't
necessarily on a couple hundred purchase
so mainstream Shoppers tend to rely more
on salespeople at big box stores for
help choosing the right product and if
you've ever tried to do that you know
that having someone read the label on
the Shelf to you is often the best you
can hope for and I don't even blame
those sales reps they're paid to sell
things not to be experts on all of the
stuff in their spare time and there's a
lot of stuff that they're expected to
sell so I think that by reusing the RTX
350's name on an inferior product Nvidia
has made it confusing on purpose they've
created a situation where even a
techsavvy sales rep that is trying could
think that well hey as long as you don't
need that extra memory say to game at a
higher resolution this version with less
memory should perform the same and save
you a buck and it gets even worse even
for the folks who attempt to do their
own research by reusing the same name
Nvidia ends up confusing them too look
at these results on YouTube sponsor junk
this is fine this is also the right card
sponsored junk wait that's a video about
the original 3050 so I could search for
the exact correct product name pick the
first highly viewed video I see and I
could think the card I'm buying is I
don't know basically that but with less
memory now if this was the first time it
happened I might say oh Nvidia you made
it silly but as I've already said this
is part of a pattern of shady behavior
let's pivot to the RTX 3060 8 gig which
is another example that happened less
than a month after the 4080 12 gig
Scandal on first glance this one doesn't
seem that bad then you notice that when
they cut off a third of the memory they
also cut off a third of the memory bus
Which slows all of it down so in both
games and Benchmark apps even ones that
didn't need the extra video memory we
measured a big performance difference
now the saying goes that there's no such
thing as a bad product only a bad price
so this one would have been more okay if
Nvidia had also provided a discount
except that they didn't the cut down RTX
3060 launched at the same MSRP as the
full fat card why well because it was
during the GPU shortage in Nvidia
thought they could get away with it
unfortunately for them and good for
everyone else the shortage was ending
around this time and regular RTX 360s
soon came back down to their normal
pricing so thankfully there aren't that
many of these manufactured E-Waste cards
out there now to be clear lots of other
companies have misleading names for
their products we just finished calling
out nvidia's rival AMD for a similar
Behavior but as the leader in the market
I feel that Nvidia has a responsibility
to set a good example to put the bar are
high and instead they've done the
opposite basically at every turn
basically forever and this is a real
problem with realworld consequences for
the consumer I personally have been
bamboozled once by Nvidia I bought an
enforce motherboard for my AMD CPU this
was back in the early 2000s and a big
part of the reason was that it had
GeForce 4 Graphics well imagine my
surprise when I learned that GeForce 4
MX is not in fact GeForce 4 GeForce 4 MX
was more like a GeForce 2 than a GeForce
4 now we're not going to have Labs
actually Benchmark a 20-year-old
motherboard to show you the exact
differences because why would we when we
can pick out more recent examples let's
look at the
gtx660 from 12 years ago this one was a
mess or rather these two are messes both
of those cards are called GTX 660 but
under their coolers are completely
different chips plot twist their
performance it's not nearly as different
this time less than 10% in Tomb Raider
2013 and we see the same in our
Benchmark apps but here's the thing if I
expect 10 donuts and I get nine donuts
and a half eaten donut I'm still pretty
ticked off and depending on which GTX
660 you get it could be even further off
than that on Tech powerups list we found
a whopping four versions of this GPU but
then none of them matched this card
which has more memory than any of them
and it's hopeless to find a pattern in
this sometimes Nvidia seems to make an
honest effort to match the performance
between their dissimilar but same named
cards as we were writing this video an
early sample of an RTX 470 with just 10
gigs of memory was found and in this
case Nvidia boosted other specs in order
to make up for the lack of memory and
they've done that sort of thing before
and since as we're finishing this video
they did it again and this time it's
both better and worse a new RTX 470 just
came out with a slightly slower and
cheaper gddr6 memory instead of the gddr
6X the 470 is supposed to have now
that's about 95% as fast as the original
so to be fair it's not too far off but
what makes it bad is that the cards
aren't going to have a different label
to let you know hey you're buying a
slower card card why do these alternate
versions of cards exist now the obvious
answer is Corporate greed and sometimes
aam's Razer does hold true here but
other times their product strategy is
actually pretty reasonable even if I
don't agree with the way they present it
the 660 chip change for example was done
to salvage higher-end dieses that didn't
make the cut and otherwise would have
been wasted so they were cut down a bit
more and turned into a lower-end product
all right no problem but hey if they
were all reasonable and clearly labeled
we wouldn't have had to make this video
and this is where things get ugly we've
complained before about the way Nvidia
sells their laptop gpus not only do they
use the same names as their desktop
counterparts even though the mobile RTX
4090 is more like a 4080 but there's
also the problems of them using much
slower memory and a performance limiter
based on the cooling and power a limiter
that varies from one laptop design to
the next depending on the manufacturer
as we've seen this limiter can drop
performance on these chips by an entire
product tier all of which leaves us with
the most important question of all if
the name of the product doesn't mean
anything about the GPU you're buying
including the performance then what the
ever loving bum does it mean as of 2024
it seems like it just means you pay us
this much and if you're not obsessed
with tech news you'll get well whatever
you get oh hey I got a message from our
sponsor ug green sometimes having your
devices plugged into the wall might not
be the most convenient thing imagine
you're at a conference with let's say
5,000 people attending there's no way
your phone laptop and any other device
can stay topped up the whole time that's
where ug green can help with their nexo
20,000 mlia hour 130 wat power Banks
it's got three output ports with the big
one able to supply 100 watts of power
charging a 16-in MacBook Pro by 43% in
30 minutes according to their testing it
also has a built-in display with useful
real-time information like the battery
Banks remaining capacity and even the
amount of juice it's outputting best of
all it's Airline safe so you can take it
with you wherever you may be heading
next so go check out this powerful
portable power bank pal from ugreen
using our link down below if you enjoyed
this video go check out the one we did
recently about the confusing nature of
these names in the first place something
that the whole industry has been doing a
really bad job of because bigger numbers
sell better even if it's not actually
better